---
title: 1. Backward Induction
type: docs
weight: 1
---

# Assignment 1: Backward Induction

Due date: 09/04/2024

---

**Task:** Create a generic recursive solver and an implementation for the game ({{< katex >}} n \in \mathbb{N} {{< /katex >}})-to-0 with move options in {{< katex >}} S \subseteq \mathbb{N_{n}\setminus\{0\}} {{< /katex >}}.

**Provided:**

* High-level steps and hints in this web page. 
* A correct implementation of this game (as a separate binary, perhaps `nova`). 
* A rough testing framework in the form of a script, replicating the autograding setup. 
* Python skeleton code including an abstract `game` interface in a multi-file structure and basic utilities for parsing arguments from `stdin` (e.g., game parameters) and for writing to `stdout` (e.g., a memo-table analyzer, used in Assignments 2 and 3).

**Metrics:** After executing the python program with the adequate arguments, `stdout` should match the output of the provided game implementation on arbitrary (but within the bounds of a non-memoized solution) inputs of {{< katex >}} n {{< /katex >}} and {{< katex >}} S {{< /katex >}}. The specific inputs on which it will be evaluated is not provided. For this assignment, output should be the categorical "game value," `WIN`, `LOSE`, or `TIE`.

---

**Learning objectives:**

* Internalize the "API" of a finite extensive-form game via generic programming.
* Begin getting comfortable writing parameterized game implementations.
* Fundamentally understand the method of backward induction.
* Get used to testing and software organization.

{{< hint info >}}

**Note:** Participants can use any language as long as they can package it into a stand-alone program that they can submit for testing. The source code is provided through a public GitHub repository, and `nova` can be installed with the Rust toolchain.

{{< /hint >}}
